---
title: A Riot in the Prison Quarantine
description: Book ‘The Colours of the Parallel World’ by Mikola Dziadok. Chapter 10. A Riot in the Prison Quarantine
---

- ~~[Introduction](./1.md)~~
- ~~[Glossary](./2.md)~~
- ~~[The De-Seg](./3.md)~~
- ~~[The Operative](./4.md)~~
- ~~[The Security](./5.md)~~
- ~~[The Untouchables in the Prison Hierarchy](./6.md)~~
- ~~[The Smell](./7.md)~~
- ~~[Rebellions Against the Divine Hierarchy](./8.md)~~
- ~~[The Divine Retribution](./9.md)~~
# [A Riot in the Prison Quarantine](./10.md)
- [Mowgli](./11.md)
- [The Spaced-Out](./12.md)
- [The Wizard](./13.md)
- [Life is Beautiful](./14.md)
- [An Open Letter](./15.md)
- [The Last Resort](./16.md)
- [The Release](./17.md)
- [Afterword](./18.md)

---

Any prison riot is almost always an uprising of doomed
people. A priori the potency of rebels and punishers is not
equal, the riot will be suppressed in any case: by de-seg, SHU,
beating, driving up the numbers of new sentences or even by
killing rebels. The question is only what damage a riot will cause
to the existing system and therefore, will the probability of a
new riot become a factor that will restrain the officers from the
next offence against the prisoners’ rights. That is the purpose
of a prison riot. Therefore, every riot in prison is a premise and
a guarantee that it will give slightly better living conditions to
future generations of inmates. For a long time, there have been no
real riots in Belarusian prisons. The times when cons could beat
the administrative staff, break the fences and seize the barracks
remained in the 90s. That is why nowadays, in the context of the
general ‘tranquility’ in prisons and the obedience of the absolute
majority of the cons, even a simple insubordination of more than
a couple of people is considered to be a riot and an emergency.

I was brought to the correctional colony No. 15 on June 12,
2011. All newcomers are sent to quarantine for two-three weeks.
It is a separate section, isolated from others, with a much stricter
regime, without labour but with multiple everyday duties like
cleaning floors, scrubbing sinks, sweeping the yard twice a day
plus some other useless activities. The purpose of quarantine
is to let a con understand ‘where he got to’, to single out those
who plan to be involved in criminal gangs and be disobedient. It

is done through making a prisoner break some informal taboos
that are present in the criminal world and subject him to a
formal cop discipline. For example, about 15-17 years ago the
inner yard of a barrack was swept either by brats or by any type
of degraded people. It was considered to be beneath ‘muzhik’
to do it, saying nothing of a ‘blatnoy’. If you were offered a
broom in the quarantine, you were expected to proudly refuse
and go to the de-seg — and only after that, you would get to the
normal housing unit. This taboo was slowly eradicated by the
administration, year after year. And nowadays a yard is swept by
99% of cons or even more. If you don’t sweep, you won’t get to
the housing unit right from the quarantine, you will get to a de-
seg, SHU, and then to a prison, or ‘spinning out’ under article 411
(see ‘The Open Letter’).

In earlier years, only brats washed sinks (as everybody spits
there!), now in almost all prisons it is done by ‘muzhiks’. Though
thatjobis still considered to be ‘small-time’. In the process of dying
out, these rules are going through some funny deformations. For
example in the correctional colony No. 15, in the quarantine, all
are going through scrubbing sinks but the one who has done it
in the housing section automatically will be moved to the ‘brats’
caste. In compliance with the stricter regime in general, there are
also stricter punishments for those who break the rules in the
quarantine. Collective responsibility is widely used. For example,
if a convict smoked in the toilet at night, then a quarantine
keeper snitches on him to the cops. They come to the quarantine
and organise ‘examination of the outer appearance’ of all the
inhabitants (usually about 40-50 people). This lasts an hour or
an hour and a half: they send everyone to the yard with their
bags and all their stuff, they shakedown the bags, make people

stand under the sun or squat with hands on the nape (‘prisoner
transport pose’ as it is called by cops) and listen to a lecture on
‘inadmissibility of routine violation’ for half an hour.

The story that happened to me is directly connected with
a know-how of No. 15: for a fault of one person, they sent the
whole quarantine section to the ground and made them march
in circles — in unison. On my arrival to the pen, I decided from
the very beginning that I wouldn’t try to live like a ‘blatnoy’
or provoke the cops into reprisals. I would live peacefully
according to the routine, mind my own business, read my books
and do my things. In general, I wouldn’t ‘show off’, just like I
had been advised by old and experienced cons that I happened
to meet during the eight months of my previous imprisonment.
But when I found out about such brutal collective punishments
(nothing like that is in the laws. To make prisoners march in
circles is a mere taunt caused by overindulgence of power), I
thought that it was better to attract attention to myself and
be punished, then to do such humiliating things. By good
fortune, I wasn’t the only political prisoner in the quarantine.
At that time there were two more people: Yauhen Vaskovich,
sentenced to 7 years for arson of the KGB quarters in Bobruisk,
and Yauhen Sakret, a prisoner of ‘Ploschcha-2010’, who got
three years for striking a riot policeman’s shield with a crowbar
three times. Besides us in the quarantine, there were several
no-drama guys that seemed not ready to put up with the
outrage. Having talked with them several times and discussed
what was going on, we decided that refusal to march should
be collective. Having got the support of two more guys, Roma
and Yegor, and having done an awareness-raising campaign (‘If
they take us to the ground, no one marches!”) among all who

we knew in the quarantine, Yauhen and I started to wait and see
when the cops would decide to use their tactics again so that we
would have a chance to deliberately refuse and give an example
to others. Yegor especially had a formal reason for refusal: he
had no shoes (his shoe size was 47), he walked in slippers in the
quarantine. We didn’t have to wait long. Soon Yegor had a verbal
confrontation with a quarantine orderly - a little nasty ‘kozyol’.

Yegor promised him to stick a shiv in his side, of course, it
was a blind threat, but it was enough and the orderly ran to
the quarantine keeper Boroda to complain. Boroda was an
exceptional jerkoff (even by the prison standards). He was in his
25th year and was yoked together with the cops by the multiple
lives they ruined together. That is why seeing the threat to his
ward he ran to the officers of the regime department without
thinking twice. Two officers came: Rogovtsev (his nickname was
Socket due to his funny upturned nose) and Moskalyov (Dog),
who started to chase us out to the parade ground.

Taking the copy of Solzhenitsyn that I was reading at the
time, I followed the others (there is no place to leave your things
in the quarantine — during the day it is not permitted to enter the
sleeping quarters where your drawer unit stands, so you have to
carry all your stuff with you). It had been raining lightly since the
morning. Having placed the cons in a row on the ground next to
the quarantine, Dog started his ‘preventive talk’:

‘Look who you are following! They come — no motherland, no
flag — and try to egg you on to something! And you are buying it!”

Those days in the quarantine there were several ‘maximum
security prisoners’ from prison No. 4 — it seems that the regime
officer was sure that the conflict with the ‘kozly’ was due to their
influence.

‘Whoever is in conflict with the activists [kozyols] and break
the rules, will go to de-seg right away! And no early parole for
you in this case! Did you get it?!

Yegor decided to contradict him while the rest of formation
was meekly keeping silent. He said that the activists looked for
trouble themselves, they cheeked and demanded to do stupid
things. But Dog, being a real cop, wasn’t trying to figure out who
was right and who was wrong, but just started to talk back to
Yegor, strolling slowly along the formation. Vaskovich jumped
in the skirmish:

“You don’t have the right to say so! You degrade his human
dignity!

‘He has no dignity?’, Dog replied without any doubt.

‘He has dignity! Everyone has it!”

For sure, such a long hassle with the cons wasn’t in Dog’s cards
and it was undermining his authority. Socket came on board:

‘Come on, all fallin fives!”, Rogovtsev started to place everyone
at the edge of the ground. Absolutely untimely, the rain turned
into a downpour. The smell of wet asphalt and the prospects
of solitary confinement spread in the air. Yauhen, Roma and I
exchanged glances. All of us fell in fives on the ground. I was
in the second five. Yauhen and Yegor were in the first one. In a
pretentious manner Dog and Socket strolled along the ‘box’ of
the cons, anticipating how they would mock at and laugh their
heads off watching the herd marching in circles.

‘And now we will march all the way to that line! And it should
be in unison! Start with the left foot! A-a-a-a-nd ONE!’, Socket
commanded.

Three people started to move along the ground trying
to absurdly imitate the soldiers’ stride. Yegor and Yauhen

remained standing. The cops, who were slightly puzzled by such
an impudent disobedience didn’t know what to do and simply
called them away and ordered them to stand a little way off the
formation. Meanwhile, it was the turn of the second five.

‘Left! A-a-a-nd ONE/!’

I was intently observing my neighbours in the five. One just
made a slight move to make a step when a scream came from
the side of Yauhen:

‘Stand still!!V’

Right away they dragged him to the dungeon. None of
our five except for one moved. I looked at Socket: there was
bewilderment in his eyes. He probably thought that we hadn’t
heard him. He repeated even louder:

‘A-a-a-nd, ONE!!V’

The five was at a standstill as before.

‘What the fuck are you thinking?? Disobedience?!” Socket
screamed losing his breath from anger and growing furious.
Moskalyov came on board:

‘Everyone squat!!! Hands on the nape!!!”

The line didn’t budge.

‘Everyone fucking squat!!!” Socket yelled repeating after
Dog.

“You squat’, I said loud and clear.

‘Who said it?’ Dog asked calmly.

‘I did”.

‘Come here’.

I approached him with a slight sense of anxiety. Moskalyov
and a couple of other cops (there was already quite a crowd -
emergency in the quarantine!) started to jump on me, to provoke
and threaten me. I was expecting a blow, but it didn’t come. I

kept silent, giving no answer to them. Suddenly I heard the
noise behind — Socket was walking next to the formation and
with the yell ‘SIT THE FUCK DOWN!!!" hitting the backs of
those who were standing on the fringe, giving them headnuts.
I turned away and continued listening to the bullying of the
cops. Somehow unnoted, Yegor also managed to quarrel with
the cops — and he was also dragged to the de-seg. They told me
to go back. I turned around and saw that the whole quarantine
was squatting already. Having thought that one’s as good as
none I sat down, too (later I put myself down on for it: I should
have remained standing). The downpour didn’t stop. For about
the ten minutes, we were listening to the ‘disciplinary’ yelling
of Socket and his threats to send us all to the de-seg. I was
sitting covered by my copy of Solzhenitsyn. Socket couldn’t
walk past me without a comment:

‘Is it “The Gulag Archipelago’? Read, read it. It will come
useful”

‘What a great title for Radio Freedom’, I thought...

They ordered us to stand up.

‘So, anyone else wants to go to the de-seg?’ Socket continued
his attack hinting at Yegor and Yauhen.

‘And if there will be even the slightest conflict with the
activists all will be sent there, understood?! And now fall in.
Quick march - to the quarantine. A-a-a-nd ONE!

I was in the first five. It was about 20 meters from our line
to the quarantine doors. My cards didn’t change: we had agreed
with the guys, so I had to do what I had promised to. And that
fact that they might lock us in the slammer was clear from
the start. Four people in our line started to walk towards the
quarantine, ridiculously trying to march in unison. I was the only

one who remained standing. Moskalyov called me again. I got
surrounded by the whole crowd of cops who started screaming
at me interrupting each other:

‘So, you are trying to be strident, aren’t you?!”

‘All the strident ones are going directly to the maximum
security, get it!”

‘What are you in for? Three-three-nine? You’re a dumb-ass?!’

‘You won’t get any reduction!’

‘Just write him up, let him stay in the de-seg for a while!’…
and so on.

I wasn’t listening to them so much - I got soaked already
from the rain and was shaking because of the nerves and rage
- line by line my neighbours in the quarantine were leaving to
the barrack, stepping up. No one remained standing.

---

This story quickly spread throughout the whole pen, the
local ‘rebels’ were happy for us: “The quarantine had a riot!” The
cons joked: when ‘zero squad’ (as they called us) carried food
canisters along the central alley, they theatrically made room
for us: ‘Make space, the ‘blatnoys’ are coming!” Vaskovich and
Yegor got their time in the de-seg, were released and properly
met by us. Pretty soon Yegor was taken to the pretrial custody
because of some newly discovered evidence. I still wonder
why I wasn’t sent to the dungeon back then. However, some
outcomes were there: first I was called to the office of Slesarev,
the head of the operative department (later he became the
deputy governor). He threatened me with maximum security
prison, article 411 and use of physical force in case of further

disobedience (ironically, in the next 4,5 years of imprisonment
I came through all of the mentioned by him). Besides, I was
put on some sort of preventive control - for the next couple
of weeks every evening we had screws dropping by to ‘check
Dziadok’: to see that he didn’t run away, didn’t cause any
mayhem. After everything that happened people were smoking
in the toilets many times, quarreling with ‘kozly’ and violating
the regime. Some were sent to the de-seg for it, some were put
on unscheduled duty. A couple of times the whole quarantine
was even taken to the ground with all the belongings. But that
was the last time they tried to make us march.

April 2017



---

- ~~[Introduction](./1.md)~~
- ~~[Glossary](./2.md)~~
- ~~[The De-Seg](./3.md)~~
- ~~[The Operative](./4.md)~~
- ~~[The Security](./5.md)~~
- ~~[The Untouchables in the Prison Hierarchy](./6.md)~~
- ~~[The Smell](./7.md)~~
- ~~[Rebellions Against the Divine Hierarchy](./8.md)~~
- ~~[The Divine Retribution](./9.md)~~
- ~~[A Riot in the Prison Quarantine](./10.md)~~
# [Mowgli](./11.md)
- [The Spaced-Out](./12.md)
- [The Wizard](./13.md)
- [Life is Beautiful](./14.md)
- [An Open Letter](./15.md)
- [The Last Resort](./16.md)
- [The Release](./17.md)
- [Afterword](./18.md)
