---
title: The Wizard
description: Book ‘The Colours of the Parallel World’ by Mikola Dziadok. Chapter 13. The Wizard
---

- ~~[Introduction](./1.md)~~
- ~~[Glossary](./2.md)~~
- ~~[The De-Seg](./3.md)~~
- ~~[The Operative](./4.md)~~
- ~~[The Security](./5.md)~~
- ~~[The Untouchables in the Prison Hierarchy](./6.md)~~
- ~~[The Smell](./7.md)~~
- ~~[Rebellions Against the Divine Hierarchy](./8.md)~~
- ~~[The Divine Retribution](./9.md)~~
- ~~[A Riot in the Prison Quarantine](./10.md)~~
- ~~[Mowgli](./11.md)~~
- ~~[The Spaced-Out](./12.md)~~
# [The Wizard](./13.md)
- [Life is Beautiful](./14.md)
- [An Open Letter](./15.md)
- [The Last Resort](./16.md)
- [The Release](./17.md)
- [Afterword](./18.md)

---

Introduction
Prison

Names of some characters were changed.

An enclosed space with specific ethical norms, with perverted
moral principles, where a human being has only one goal - to
survive, gives birth to weird cause-effect relations.

You can believe or not in destiny, in the possibility of the
Universe to materialize your thoughts and wishes, in karma,
in boomerang rule, in Biblical ‘you reap as you sow’, you can
consider all of the above a manifestation of Supreme forces or a
logical consequence of our own actions, but in certain points of
the Earth these rules manifest themselves as an invariable and
ultimatum-like fact.

One of these points is located on the territory of Belarus: it
is a facility called Prison No. 4, better known among convicts as
Mogilev gaol.

Prisonis one of the utmost and cruelest disciplinary sanctions
specified by the Correctional Code for ‘worst offenders of
established procedure of conviction’. The worse one is probably
Article 411 of the Criminal Code of Belarus (see An Open Letter’).
A prisoner can get to the gaol from a correctional colony by
court order for up to three years. In prison the sentence is served
in cell confinement: 3 to 12 people stay in a cell together 24/7
for years; they have an hour of walk per day, strict restrictions
on the amount of personal belongings, one care package per
year and quite often not everyone is subject to it (taking into
account the amount of food available, it means that a prisoner
is almost all the time hungry), and one visit per year - 2 hours
of talking through the glass that often can be denied by the
decision of the prison governor.

But the main point of Mogilev gaol is not in its ‘hunger
regime’ but in who is in charge there and who sets up the rules.

Originally prison was created by correctional system for
suppression of uprisings in colonies and isolation of those who
could start one: crime lords, code-bound thieves, principled
and charismatic political prisoners.

From the beginning of the so-called ‘criminal revolution’
in USSR republics in the infamous 90s the gaols became the
center of those ‘negators’ — crime lords living by the thieves’
rules that were pain in the ass for the prison administration;
criminals that were not accepted neither by prison’s de-seg or
the SHU. Their unity, dedication to the ‘code’ and readiness to
use violence for enforcing them for sure led to their isolation in
the cell system.

But times have changed. Organised crime in Belarus was
all strangled (of course, apart from the Family that is control).
Partially they were liquidated by death squads, partially the
code-bound thieves got smaller in numbers and quarreled over
with each other, the prisons were put under the control of the
administration, so if we speak about it in cops’ terms, a ‘stable
operational mode’ was established there. In theory, gaols were
to disappear or at least their number was to go down'. However,

the bureaucratic Soviet and of course Lukashenko’s logic
was not like that. Every gaol means not less than a hundred
of employees of punishment execution department of MIA,
consistent budget financing that was consistently siphoned
off by the administration, and for sure wide corruptive
opportunities for warders and regime officers. To close it all
at once just because in Belarus there were no criminal leaders
anymore? No way! If there is a prison — somebody should be
put into it! The system chose another way: if a common convict
got more obedient, we would lower the criteria for sending
someone there - and the gaols would be filled with people again!
And so already from the middle of 2000s the number of crime
lords and ‘enforcers’ in Mogilev, Zhodino and Grodno’s gaols
decreased and there were more common convicts (muzhiks).
Now you can get to a gaol if you managed to get a cellphone to
the prison, prepared home brew, got into a quarrel with the unit
supervisor, wrote a complaint on the administration, refused
to sweep common spaces, simply had a fight with another
convict. When I was in, a guy got into Mogilev gaol for pouring
water over a supply manager and told him it was pee. Colony
administrations started to actively use gaols as a dumpsite for
all who may cause any problem. Somebody lost a big sum of
money in a game? Let’s put him into the gaol so no one would
smash his head in the prison. Someone stole something from
other prisoners? Everyone would start to kick him around and
he could commit suicide... Let’s put him into the gaol, to be on
a safe side! They even started to send common brats there on
some unknown principle.

So, at the time of my arrival there (December 7, 2012) Mogilev
gaol represented a prison block with about 220 residents, among

them only about 20 were crime lords and professional criminals.
The rest, with few exceptions, were like those mentioned
above. The criminals shared the power in prison with the
administration, and in such a split-up of a pie everyone had
their own benefits: the administration got control and absence
of incidents, the criminals got the right to collect their ‘common
fund’, superiority feeling over the gray mass of ‘commoners’
and numerous privileges from the cops.

Part 1.
Mirror Magician

I spotted him already at the ‘assembly’ when our pack of
newcomers to the gaol was frisked and divided among the cells.

His mouth was running like a garbage truck. A ringing voice.
He had a Greek name (a rare thing for our part of the world)
Kostas and an Armenian last name - Sarkisyan. His personal
records were super thick, even thicker than mine (and it was
quite a rare case, t0o).

‘I am a complainer’, Kostas gladly explained to all who were
interested. ‘T've filed (he told some lofty number)... complaints
on the cops!” You could hear genuine pride in his voice.

We were facing the wall, our hands behind the backs, waiting
for the search. Meanwhile, Kostas was already talking with the
guards:

‘Look what I've got!”

He took a plain school copybook out of the bag and started to
flip pages. All pages were in the reddish spots and odd scribbles
that resembled signatures. ‘These are souls’, Sarkisyan explained.
‘T have bought them in the prison for a pack of cigarettes’.
Having looked closely I saw that the souls he bought were
spots of blood of their owners with their signatures next to them.

‘They read a spell and declare that they give their souls
to me — Kostas Sarkisyan!’, he was explaining gladly, with his
coal black eyes shining. ‘And I give them a pack of “Fest” or
“Korona”2. And everybody is happy!’

Kostas was flipping page after page with the reddish spots,
implying that there were plenty of people in the pen eager to
agree on that bargain.

‘What the f*ck do you do it for?’ The guard was puzzled.

‘They charge me, like batteries’.

‘F*ck, that is some sketchy shit’, the cop noted with a tint of
fear. ‘Aren’t you scared of messing up with it?’

‘Huh! My grandma is the strongest witch of Armenia! She
was. [ myself am a Master of Mirror Magic. By the way, Kostas
turned to another guard, ‘why did you have a row with the red-
haired?’

The baffled cop exchanged looks with the colleague. Kostas
continued taking by the beard:

“You have a girlfriend, right?’

‘What if I do?’

‘She has red hair, I can see that’, the Wizard narrowed his
eyelids looking at the guard point blank. ‘So why did you have
arow?

Looking how the Master of Mirror Magic played with the
guards made me wonder if magic made easier his prison life in
such a complex and dark place like a gaol. Or would it perplex
it instead?

‘There are witchers, there are sorcerers. But I am a wizard.
Those are totally different things!” Kostas was educating not
only cops, but everyone around who was attracted by such an
unusual talk. At the time none of us knew that Mogilev gaol
could do magic even better than Sarkisyan and that for the next
2.5 years it prepared tons of cruel adventures for him.

After the search the cops took us to ‘triples’. It is a so to
say prison quarantine. Eight cells, three people in each, with
a higher security and located slightly at the side - in the side
hall far from the main prison corridors. There newcomers
stayed for 2-3 weeks, steeling themselves for the life in the cell
system and going through all possible prison registrations with
doctors, psychologists, officers, etc.

Wizard (that was how the crime lords named him) and I
ended up in the adjacent houses. I was in No. 150, he got into
No. 151. The constructional peculiarity of the triples was the
following: thin walls and toilets next to each other through the
wall. It meant that by opening the flush tank of the toilet you
could talk, and by stretching your hand you could easily pass a
thin parcel: a neighbor would take it with his hand, and you just
pass it to him.

Not finding common grounds with the cell mates, I started
to communicate extensively with Wizard.

He was 30 years old, from Gomel. His sentence was a standard
eight years under article 328.3 (drug trafficking). Wizard was
transferred from Correctional colony No. 3, Vitba). There he
was screwing cops brains and tirelessly writing complaints
to all possible authorities starting from the Department of
Corrections to KGB. But that was not the reason he got famous
there, he got renowned due to his magic activity, of course.

Not only had he bought souls of the inmates but also ‘cured’ the
sick, made magical charms, spelled, got charged from the trees
growing in the yard and one time he even started to put a spell on
deputy governor in political field. In front of everyone he started
to nail wax nails into his footprints reciting spells. According
to the rumors and evidences of other prisoners from No. 3, the
latter became the real reason for his transfer to the gaol.
Wizards managed to pull through a whole bunch of esoteric
literature to the triples: Orlov’s ‘Temptation of the Evil’,
Papus’s ‘Traité méthodique de Science Occulte’, a collection of
Castaneda’s books, printed copies of all sorts of mantras and
chakras... He shared all these with me, he saw in me a person
who was at least a little bit familiar with the sphere of his
interests (I had been practicing yoga for a year by then and had
read almost all Castaneda books even before that), so he started
to initiate me not only in the details of his magical profession,
but his business plans. They included organization of a sect
after his release, he would be declared a prophet, of course, or
the enlightened or something of that kind, and would start to
train his adepts in ‘battle magic’. Of course, for huge amounts
of money. Right upfront he offered me a partnership promising
fabulous profits with minimal expenses. I delicately refused.
After getting settled in his small company Wizard started
his magical experiments. In cell 151 spiritual sessions started.
On a piece of paper Kostas drew a magical circle with the letters
of alphabet, blotted it with his blood and reciting a spell hold a
needle above the center of the circle. The needle pointed to the
letters, in such a way a spirit from the portal opened by Kostas
talked to him by answering his questions. By the requests of
his cell mates Wizard gladly called the souls of their deceased

relatives and for assistance he called all possible archangels
for himself. When people from the neighboring cell started to
complain on the vent panes that would open by themselves and
on cruel nightmares, Wizard promised ‘to close the portal’.

Pretty soon our time in the quarantine ended. First I and
then Kostas were transferred to the main block. There Wizard
had a vast field for his activities.

Part 2.
Fishing

Fishing is a communication means of prisoners, ‘inter-cell
contacts’ in the parlance of cops.

There were three types of fishing in prison: air fishing,
wet one and kabura. The first two worked like that: a rope (‘a
horse’) was stretched between cells by simple engineer devices,
by means of which prisoners would pull carefully wrapped
parcels or kites® through the windows (air way) or through the
draining of the sewer system (wet fishing). But in Mogilev gaol
the main means of communication were kaburas - holes in the
walls, ceiling or floor that allowed for connecting (working)
with neighboring cells directly. Breaking a hole in cement wall
without any more or less suitable metal tool took unbelievable
amount of time and efforts. That’s why the clever prisoners were
carefully hiding their kaburas and were doing everything they
could not to let cops find them.

The role of roads and inter-cell communication in the
prisoner’s life of Mogilev gaol is hard to overestimate. Every

day at strictly appointed time four actuations happened in
the prison. Every prisoner could write to anyone: to find a
fellow-countrymen, to get the news from another pen, to ask
about common friends and so on. ‘Commoners’ could write
to blatnoys for a favor to get the ‘necessities’, to clarify some
points of the code or to ask them to drop by and help with a
conflict in the cell (despite the fact that prison regime meant
strict isolation, blatnoys had a right to freely walk into any
cells and administrate justice. The doors for them were opened
personally by the head guard of the shift - ‘a block guard’).

A kite had the same importance in the prisoners’ life.
According to a popular saying, ‘a kite is the face of a prisoner’.
Carelessly written word in a kite in the gaol could start a whole
bunch of critically non-solvable problems, cause a cruel physical
punishment to a lighthearted prisoner, ruin a crime lord’s
career. The most seasoned prisoners didn’t even let crossing-
outs and corrections in their kites. Some put an eyelash in the
rolled kite - so the recipient knew that the kite wasn’t opened
along the way (crime lords used such a perlustration to control
suspicious communication of the ‘commoners’).

Saying ‘Never write what you dare not sign’ is about kites. In
the gaol both oral and written word could extol or bring down
(which happened more often) the one who dared to share it
with the world.

Four times a day a prisoner in charge of the fishing road
was receiving and sending the mail — handfuls of kites — paper
capsules carefully rolled up to the size of the stub of a pencil and
packed tightly in a plastic bag. In such a way, along the regular
life of cell communities, a secret epistolary life of the prison was
continuously flowing through the arterial roads — kaburas.

Part 3.
Snow Ball

After getting into cell 124 Wizard passionately started to
practice his usual craft: he helped his cellmates to get rid of
jinx, ‘cured’ them, hold hypnosis sessions, and made people
stare in his eyes promising to show them ‘their demon’ and so
on. Moreover, he started to gather disciples — not only in his
own cell but with the help of the fishing road all around the
gaol, alluring by the fact that supposedly one of his apprentices
took part in a Russian copy of the TV show ‘Psychic Challenge’.

I also was offered to become his apprentice. For that I would
have to do only a couple of manipulations with my blood and
a mirror (he was indeed a mirror wizard) and of course give an
oath of loyalty to Kostas himself.

I delicately refused.

But he had enough people in the gaol who were willing to.
Wizard was in correspondence with many and described with
flying colors unlimited miraculous qualities that his disciples
would have after they became ‘battle mages’ under his skillful
leadership. Young prisoners were excited; they were giving him
oaths of loyalty and were sending blotches of their blood in the
kites.

For some time I was holding correspondence with Wizard,
too, as we had been communicating while staying in triples.
But truly speaking, soon I started to feel some sort of a hidden
agenda in his kites. They all started with ‘Good day, Brother!”
or ‘Hi, Mate!” and they all invariably ended by ‘Kolyan, if it is
not hard for you, please, send me...” (pens, pencils, pen refills,
postcards, envelopes — in general all the things that were in
short supply in the gaol and he knew I had some). Of course,
a couple of times I shared with him, but Wizard’s wants were
only growing, there were no kites without requests of tangible
things and pretty soon I ratcheted down correspondence since
such kind of ‘friendship’ was not for me.

Soon I happened to spend two weeks in cell 124 and see
the life of Wizard in the community and his magical activities.
I have to say that his convict’s life was not as successful as
the ‘magician’s’ one. Despite the fact that he had a number
of apprentices that were attracted by his silver tongue and
fanciful promises, in general in his cell for six people he was a
butt of a joke and a reason for constant conflicts. His excessive
chattiness and vainglory, his constant screw-ups (one time he
poured water over the TV set, another time he said something
out of place when the crime lords were there and later the
whole house had to answer to that), his unwillingness to ‘lead
prison life’ didn’t work for Kostas’s credibility at all. He tried
to make up his authority by telling the stories of his powerful
grandma, about his deadly curses and how once two foes beat
him up and both soon tragically died. It didn’t work well. But
with the arrival of new people (couple of guys and me) to the
cell his mercantile character manifested to the full. Before he
had been driving the cellmates mad by telling them about his
future pig farm that was supposed to make him rich within a
couple of years and he even found partners for the business
right there in the house. And now after he found out that my
cellmate (the one who, like me, was temporarily transferred to
cell 124) had some property in a village, he suggested that he
secured it for Kostas in exchange for magic abilities the latter
could hand down to him. Somehow he decided that I also was

an owner of expensive property so he offered me to give away
everything to him and get an amulet instead that would make
any wish come true. Any wish! The question why he couldn’t do
such an amulet for himself and get out of the prison just hung
in the air.

Shortly after my return to the previous cell the relations
of Kostas and his cell mates became strained and he had to
move to another cell. It was preceded by the visit of blatnoys to
cell 124, they had a preventive talk with Wizard and officially
prohibited his sorcery.

But in a new one, in cell 120 Wizard didn’t linger. Trying to
show that he was much more than he actually was he didn’t
get on with the cellmates and was clearly told that he needed
to look for another cell for himself. It is worth noting that in
the gaol, as in any cell system, frequent moves from one cell to
another had a very negative effect on the prisoner’s reputation
as it was considered that if he couldn’t get along with one
community, he wouldn’t get along with another one either.
So every new house strengthened the negative reputation of a
prisoner.

Cell 123 - one of the biggest in the block — became a new
refuge of Wizard. It was considered a certain ‘settling tank’
where blatnoys would set those who couldn’t get along in other
houses, the prisoners who ‘screwed up’ (‘played-outs’, ‘rats’
and such), bird-brain and slightly insane prisoners, and those
who couldn’t ‘chip in to the common fund’ (to give blatnoys tea,
cigarettes and so on). Psychological climate in such houses was
matching their dwellers, it was a tense, evil, aggressive (even in
terms of the gaol) environment. Every man defended his own
interests.

As I have already mentioned, crime lords were doing
rounds through the cells from time to time, calling on their
ward ‘commoners’, or ‘kozyols’, as they often called them
among themselves. Upon such rounds the houses in need got
all the necessities (tea and cigarettes), important news and
innovations, prisoners were also given instructions on how
to deal with the cops and, of course, the justice was enforced:
conflicts were solved, those who screwed up were physically
punished or given a strict reprimand. And for sure for impudent,
self-confident crime lords such rounds were an opportunity
to raise themselves once again above the ‘commoners’. Three
or four ‘gangrels’ walking skanky and with self-satisfied air in
expansive non-prison clothes (while everyone was obliged to
wear uniform) entered the cells disrupting their set rhythm
of life and right away started to make nipping and mocking
comments to all those they thought needed it. Nobody dared
to object them to anything, answer back or get into a row. The
slightest attempt to set yourself on the same level as crime
lords led to a reminder of your status in the best case, in the
worst case — to a slap in your face, that’s why most of the
prisoners rushed to make tea and take sweets and expensive
cigarettes out of the shelves that were stored specially for the
visit of blatnoys. Blatnoys saw that cons were afraid of them and
it boosted their self-esteem even more.

Upon one of such rounds in the spring of 2014 criminals
visited cell 123. At that time Wizard had a row with the cops
and served his 10 days in the dungeon. During the conversation
the blatnoys (good judges of characters) quickly noticed that
something wasn’t right in the cell. Some half words. They didn’t
overlook grungy exchanges of looks, odd tints of tones. A cup of
strong tea passed around the circle didn’t lower the pressure.
Vova the Bald-coot, the enforcer in the prison, decided to ‘break
the wall’ right away:

‘Is everything alright in your cell?’

“Yes, yes, everything is okay!” the ‘commoners’ hastily nodded.

But, of course, you couldn’t trust them. They were hiding
something.

‘Is there understanding!?” Bald-coot repeated sullenly
looking into the frightened eyes.

And there Martyn who moved to the cell recently intervened:

‘On the whole, everything is alright, as it should be. But in
general, there is not enough understanding in the cell’.

‘Finally’ - Bald-coot must have thought at the moment.
But Martyn didn’t want to explain what he meant, he was too
afraid. At that time Shara, an assistant of Bald-coot, transferred
Martyn to a different cell where Martyn gave the whole picture:
in a community of 12 people the most impudent one — Poacher
- with the term of 25 years that he got right in the court — stood
out. The house had already been divided into conflicting groups,
but he destroyed even that fragile order. He gathered around
himself a small bunch of guys like himself and they started to
defend their interest by fists and kicks, by beating up cellmates
because of various reasons: that one ate too much bread, that
one said something wrong. These cases were not reported to
blatnoys — maybe because of the common agreement, or because
of the fear of Poacher, although according to all the rules, such a
thing should be reported to blatnoys immediately. So they lived
like that, fighting for food and being afraid of those who had
bigger fists. Sure thing such a state of affairs was unacceptable
for the crime lords. In blatnoy system, just like in the state one,

the monopoly of the authority on violence is a crucial element.
According to the code, crime lords could beat up ‘commoners’
but ‘commoners’ were not allowed to beat each other.

Shara got back into cell 123, Bald-coot was there all the
time. Poacher was beaten and thrown out of the cell. The
investigation continued on the following day. Wizard was taken
out of the de-seg to the cell on the first floor. They fixed him
tea, treated him with chocolate. Casually Bald-coot asked how
they lived in cell 123?

‘We lived okay, everything was alright’, Wizard answered
without sensing a hidden agenda.

‘Are you sure it was okay?’ Bald-coot specified. ‘Maybe were
there some problems?’

‘No, Vova, there were no problems! All was as usual!” Wizard
continued to tank himself further.

But in the dungeons physical punishment was prohibited by
the code. After his time in the de-seg came to an end Wizard
got a couple of days for ‘thinking over’ and when he got back to
cell 123, he got slapped in the face with the words ‘for lying to
blatnoys’. That would have been the right time for him to calm
down, but it seemed that he was so sure that the higher powers
were protecting him, that he continued his game and wrote a
kite to his former cellmate Martyn (he was in a different cell by
that time): ‘Why did you tell everything to blatnoys, why did you
rat out Poacher as we all had agreed to keep silence?” Martyn
wasn’t confused by getting this kite and out of all options he
chose the most sure-fire one. He carefully rolled it up and sent
to blatnoys.

Bald-coot with his escort was beating hell out of Kostas
diligently and for a long time on the wooden floor of cell 123,

they broke him two teeth and made him eat that ill-fated kite.
The above-mentioned Shara was so diligent at beating Wizard
(who was twice smaller than he) that he tore his snickers in the
process. However, later on, trying to cover up all his sins, Kostas
sent Shara a new pair of shoes in a parcel. Sure it meant that he
told his parents and they sent the shoes.

Kostas Sarkisyan was set free in May 2015 and as far as I
know until his release he didn’t do any magic.

# Epilogue

From the cradle and till the death everything kind, harmo-
nious and truthful that surrounds us dictates us simple and
comprehensible rules of humane communal living: do not
tell a lie, do not covet what belongs to others, do not act slyly,
and do not use other people as your means. In general, treat
others like you want to be treated. Almost all world religions
talk about it, too. Every one of us to a lesser or greater degree
breaks these rules: the necessity to survive among imperfect
people forces us to make a compromise with our conscience.
However, if deception and self-interest become a central
axis around which all your life goes, sooner or later you will
inevitably be tangled in your own lies and come up to a very
unhappy upshot. It will happen not in the mythical hell, but
here in this life. And quite often the snow ball that will roll
over you won’t be connected with your actions at all at the first
glance. ‘The ways of God are inscrutable’ says a Christian on
that. A simple minded villain will tell ‘Bad luck, fuck it’. But I
believe that one day scientists will figure out the explanation
of why after completing an incomprehensible circle along our

social connections, after casually bumping into actions and
intentions of others, our actions and even intentions return to
us triplicated: by cute gifts of fortune, if we were kind from the
start, or by cruel punishments, if we carried rancor, rage and
self-interest initially. And I also think that they will explain
why in a normal life a cycle of that circle may take dozens of
years, and in some places (truly enchanted ones) it goes with a
tremendous speed.

I found Wizard in social network Vkontakte in about a year
after release. As a profile picture he had a ‘mysterious’ picture
of a mage in fantasy style. His status message read “I DON’T
PRACTICE MAGIC FOR MONEY!!! I CHOSE APPRENTICIES ON
MY OWN!!!” So I sent him a message.

‘Hey, brother!” he answered back. ‘How are you? How is your
health, mate?’ he was pouring flattery titles one after another.
‘And where do you live? Here is my number, let’s talk over the
phone!” his mateyness was just over the charts. We talked about
the gaol, about friends in common, about that story. According
to him, he was punished then not because of deception, but
because of sorcery against the prison’s deputy governor on
disciplinary affairs, when the latter wrote him up for the de-
seg. Wizard stretched his arm to him with the words, ‘Let you
be cursed by a curse of Satan. Let all your children be stillborn!’
And the officer Vladimirovich ran to blatnoys to complain and
they beat Kostas up and asked him, ‘Will you practice witchcraft
again!?’

However, pretty soon Wizard changed the subject to more
practical topics and shared with me that he was living in
Moscow and wanted to start a company for clearing souls off
the sins. The full ‘sin-clearing’ of one soul would cost 20 000
euros, but the effect would be breathtaking: not a single sinon a
soul, it would become crystal clear as baby’s tears! But Moscow
was just a starting point of his business plan. He would open
up branches in other post-Soviet countries, himself would stay
in Europe and would just collect all the money, and the work
would be done by his apprentices, battle mages. He later wrote
me, ‘Everyone who takes part in the start-up will become dollar
millionaires in less than a year!” To start the project Kostas was
missing just one tiny thing - an initial capital (Wizard himself
worked as a night guard and lived at his relatives’) - somewhat
around 5000 dollars. On my surprised question how I could
help him with that as I was living on my scholarship and earned
extra as a journalist, he answered also surprised:

‘But your politicians have been investing in you!’

With a thick distrust in his look he listened to my attempts
to prove that politicians do not support anarchists financially
and once again advised me to think and invest into his business
as I could become a millionaire ‘in less than a year’!

I delicately refused.

Transgressors’ Isolation Centre in Minsk
March 30 - April 7,2017


---

- ~~[Introduction](./1.md)~~
- ~~[Glossary](./2.md)~~
- ~~[The De-Seg](./3.md)~~
- ~~[The Operative](./4.md)~~
- ~~[The Security](./5.md)~~
- ~~[The Untouchables in the Prison Hierarchy](./6.md)~~
- ~~[The Smell](./7.md)~~
- ~~[Rebellions Against the Divine Hierarchy](./8.md)~~
- ~~[The Divine Retribution](./9.md)~~
- ~~[A Riot in the Prison Quarantine](./10.md)~~
- ~~[Mowgli](./11.md)~~
- ~~[The Spaced-Out](./12.md)~~
- ~~[The Wizard](./13.md)~~
# [Life is Beautiful](./14.md)
- [An Open Letter](./15.md)
- [The Last Resort](./16.md)
- [The Release](./17.md)
- [Afterword](./18.md)

